Hi again. You will now
learn how to compute
the probabilities for
your transition and
emission matrices.
Given a corpus, you'll be
able to populate
these two matrices.
Let me show you how
you can do this.
Let's start with how to
populate the transition matrix,
which holds all the
transition probabilities
between states of
your Markov model.
First, let's explore
how to calculate
the transition probabilities
on a conceptual level.
Using this very small training
corpus, as you can see,
the associates at parts of
speech tags are depicted
by the background color.
To calculate the
transition probabilities,
you actually only
use the parts of
speech tags from your
training corpus.
So to calculate
the probability of
the blue parts of speech tag
transitioning to the purple one,
you first have to count
the occurrences of
that tag combination in
your corpus, which is two.
The number of all tag pairs
starting with a
blue tag is three,
for this corpus at least.
So two out of three
tag sequences in
your training corpus starts
with the blue parts
of speech tag.
In other words, the
transition probability for
a purple tag following a blue
tag is two out of three.
More formally, in
order to calculate
all the transition probabilities
of your Markov model,
you'd first have to count
all occurrences of tag pairs
in your training corpus.
I'll define this
as the function C
of the tags t_i minus 1, t_i,
which returns that counts
for the tag t_i minus
1 followed by the tag t_i
in your training corpus.
Next, you calculate the
probability of a tag t_i
following another tag
t_i minus 1 as P of t_i,
given t_i minus 1.
This is counts of t_i minus 1,
t _i in the numerator,
which is the number of
occurrences of t_i minus 1,
t_i in the corpus,
divided by the sum of all
occurrences of the tag t_i
minus 1 together with
all the other tags t_j.
This will become more clear
in the following slides.
I'll write this as P for
the probability of t_i
given t_i minus 1.
This probability is given
by the total number of
times tag t_i occurred
after attack t_i minus 1,
which is given by the
function counts of t_i,
t_i minus 1 in the numerator.
Then divide it by the number of
total occurrences of
the tag t_i minus 1,
given by the function count of
t_i minus 1 in the divisor.
So say you want to train
a model for Haiku,
a type of short Japanese poetry.
Your training corpus will
be the following Haiku
from Ezra Pound, written in 1913.
In the programming assignments,
you'll be given a
prepared corpus.
Here, you will make some
changes to the corpus
in order to calculate the
correct probabilities.
Consider each line of the
corpus as a separate sentence.
First, at the start token
to each line or
sentence in order to be
able to calculate the
initial probabilities
using the previous
defined formula.
Then transform all words in
the corpus to lowercase.
So the model becomes
case insensitive.
The punctuation you should leave
intact because it doesn't
make a difference
for a toy model and
there aren't tags
for different punctuation
included here.
So there you have it,
a nicely prepared corpus.